README.md, before:

# Chat App

A real-time public chat application built with the MERN stack. Users can join, chat, and leave public chat rooms.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
Ensure you have the following installed:
- Node.js
- npm

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Ryneex/ChatApp
    cd public-chat-app
    ```

2. **Install dependencies**: it will install dependencies for both frontend and backend
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

### Running the App in Development Mode

1. **Start the backend server**:

    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

2. **Navigate to the frontend directory**:

    ```bash
    cd frontend
    ```

3. **Start the frontend development server**:

    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

4. Open your browser and go to http://localhost:5173 to access the chat app.

### Building for Production

1. In the root directory, build the application:
    ```bash
    npm run build
    ```

2. Start the production server:
    ```bash
    npm run start
    ```

## Built With
- Express.js
- React
- Node.js
- Socket.io

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Please submit a pull request or open an issue to discuss any changes.

Commit message:

feat: add Note for hosted site inactivity

README.md, after:

# Chat App

A real-time public chat application built with the MERN stack. Users can join, chat, and leave public chat rooms.

## Note
This app is hosted on a free instance of Render.com, which may spin down due to inactivity, potentially causing delays of 50 seconds or more.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
Ensure you have the following installed:
- Node.js
- npm

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Ryneex/ChatApp
    cd ChatApp
    ```

2. **Install dependencies** for both the frontend and backend:
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

### Running the App in Development Mode

1. **Start the backend server**:
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

2. **Navigate to the frontend directory**:
    ```bash
    cd frontend
    ```

3. **Start the frontend development server**:
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

4. **Access the app**:
   Open your browser and go to [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173) to access the chat app.

### Building for Production

1. **Build the application** from the root directory:
    ```bash
    npm run build
    ```

2. **Start the production server**:
    ```bash
    npm run start
    ```

## Built With
- [Express.js](https://expressjs.com/)
- [React](https://reactjs.org/)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)
- [Socket.io](https://socket.io/)

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Please submit a pull request or open an issue to discuss any changes.
